WEBSITE DEPLOYMENT

1. Steps to put a webside online

  > Create the website

    You can create a website using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript (complementing with many libraries and frameworks); or using a Content Management System like WordPress or Joomla.

  > Get a custom domain name

    You need to buy a domain for your website. These are for sell at pages like Hostinger.com, domains.google, namecheap.com, get.tech, etc.

  > Getting web hosting
  
    You then need for a server in which to place all your files. Depending on your webpage (static or dynamic), you may need different hosting solutions (shared hosting, a Virtual Dedicated Server, Virtual Private Server, etc).
    Hosting can be found at Hostinger.com, Heroku, UltraHost, Siteground, FastComet, scalaHosting, dreamHosting, hostGator, AWS, Google Cloud, etc.

  > Configure DNS settins

  > Set up a custom e-mail address

2. Domains

  The domain is the URL that the user will type into his browser that will point to your webpage. It has the following structure:

    <domain>.<top-level-domain>

    <domain> : The name of your webpage
    <top-level-domain> : The last part of the domain, that will usually describe the field that the website is pointing to.

  You need to buy a new domain to acquire it, and you can do so from domain-selling websites.
  
  Tips on creating a new domain
    > Pick a less-common TLD if you can because these are more available.
    > Pick the most unique domain possible to help your website be more accessible and memorable for potential users.
    > Pick a highly searchable domain to improve your Search Engine Optimization score.

3. Hosting

  There are different hosting solutions that you can take depending on your needs:

  - Shared web hosting
    > The website is hosted in a server that is shared between many other websites.
    > Resources are shared between different websites as well.
    > It is the most inexpensive solution in the market.
    > It has support for different CMSs, depending on the advertisements of the company that provides the service.

  - VPS (Virtual Private Server) hosting
    > It is a virtual server located inside a data certer of a hosting provider.
    > The client is provided with root access to the virtual server, so it can be fully customizable.
    > It is less expensive than a dedicated server, but more expensive than shared web hosting.
    
  - DS (Dedicated Server) hosting
    > It is a physical server located inside a data center of a hosting provider.
    > It is fully customizable by the client.
    > It is the most expensive service.

  - WordPress web hosting
    > It is a shared web hosting service in which all the websites are built around WordPress.
    > It is a highly optimized solution for WordPress websites, and includes several features specifically for them.
    > It usually supports SQL databases, that go along with WordPress and PHP.

  - Cloud hosting
    > It is a service that offers a network of interconnected servers that provide hosting to the web application.
    > It has better latency than the other solutions because the end user can fetch data from the nearest server in the network.
    > It is time consuming to upload changes to the website.


  There are different services that allow you to host your website:

  > BlueHost
  > Hostinger
  > UltraHost
  > HostGator
  > ScalaHosting: Good reviews for VPS hosting.
  > DreamHost
  > SiteGround
  > CloudWays

4. TCP/IP

Transmission Control Protocol and Internet Protocol is a protocol that connects the user with his requested information over the internet.

It is composed of the following layers:
- Application

  Composed of programs and applications that the user is interacting with that require a connection to the internet.
  It has different protocols like 'HTTP' for web applications, or 'SMTP' for emailing.
- Transport
  It has different protocols, like 'TCP' or 'UTP'. These are useful for low latency applications like gaming or streaming.
- Internet
  Uses the IP protocol to map the different endpoints to their destination.
  ...

4. DNS (Domain Name System)

The DNS is the system that stores the different domains (or records) and links them with a specified IP address (look at Cloudflare).

There are different DNS record categories:
- Server records (NS)
  These records point to the server in which all the other DNS records will be stored.
- Website records (A)
  These records link the URL of the webpage to an IP address that points to the server that stores the website files.
- Mail records (MX)
  These records point to you email hosting provider
- CNAME records
  These records are aliases (redirects) that point visitors to a different domain or subdomain.
- TXT records
  These records associate different credentials with your domain. Their purpose is to provide additional information to your domain to make them more trustworthy.

Nameservers
DNS record types and common settings
DNS providers
Tools to manage DNS

5. 