MOUSE EVENTS

These are the available events when the mouse interact with the HTML document.

1. Events

    - CLICK-RELATED

    onclick
        The user clicks on the element.

    oncontextmenu
        The user right-clicks on the element to open a context menu.

    ondblclick
        The user double-clicks on the element.

    onmousedown
        The user presses a mouse button over the element.

    onmouseup
        The user releases a mouse button over the element.

    - POINTER-RELATED
    
    onmouseenter
        The pointer is moved onto the element

    onmouseleave
        The pointer is moved out of the element.

    onmousemove
        The pointer is moved while it is over the element.

    onmouseover
        The pointer is moved onto the element or onto one of its children.

    onmouseout
        The pointer is moved out of an element or out of one of its children.

2. Methods

    .getModifierState()
        Returns a boolean whether the specified key is activated.

3. Properties

    - ALT, CTRL, META, SHIFT

    .altKey
        Returns a boolean whether the "ALT" key was pressed when the mouse event was triggered..

    .ctrlKey
        Returns whether the "CTRL" key was pressed when the mouse event was triggered.

    .metaKey
        Returns whether the "META" key was pressed when an event was triggered.

    .shiftKey
        Returns whether the "SHIFT" key was pressed when an event was triggered.

    - MOUSE BUTTONS

    .button
        Returns which mouse button was pressed.

    .buttons
        Returns which mouse buttons were pressed when the mouse event was triggered.

    .which
        Returns which mouse button was pressed when the mouse event was triggered.

    - COORDINATES

    .clientX
        Returns the horizontal coordinate of the mouse pointer, relative to the current window, when the mouse event was triggered.
    .clientY
        Returns the vertical coordinate of the mouse pointer, relative to the current window, when the mouse event was triggered.

    .offsetX
        Returns the horizontal coordinate of the mouse pointer relative to the position of the edge of the target element
    .offsetY
        Returns the vertical coordinate of the mouse pointer relative to the position of the edge of the target element

    .pageX
        Returns the horizontal coordinate of the mouse pointer, relative to the document, when the mouse event was triggered.
    .pageY
        Returns the vertical coordinate of the mouse pointer, relative to the document, when the mouse event was triggered.

    .movementX
        Returns the horizontal coordinate of the mouse pointer relative to the position of the last mousemove event
    .movementY
        Returns the vertical coordinate of the mouse pointer relative to the position of the last mousemove event

    .screenX
        Returns the horizontal coordinate of the mouse pointer, relative to the screen, when an event was triggered.
    .screenY
        Returns the vertical coordinate of the mouse pointer, relative to the screen, when an event was triggered.
    
    